
	Linux kernel for PS2 TOOL SBC

This is a fork of the Linux kernel, version 2.0.36. This fork is meant
to run on the single-board computer (SBC) inside the PlayStation 2 TOOL.

WHAT IS THE PLAYSTATION 2?

  The PlayStation 2 is a video game console released by Sony in the
  year 2000. Games for the console were produced through 2013. The basic
  architecture is that of a PlayStation 1 with an extra CPU (the "Emotion
  Engine" or EE) and a new GPU (the "Graphics Synthesizer" or GS).
  PS2 consoles are capable of running their own software, and they can also
  run software made for the original PS1. 

WHAT IS THE PLAYSTATION 2 TOOL?

  The PlayStation 2 TOOL is the development platform for software for the
  PlayStation 2. The system consists of a single PC-tower-sized black box
  that looks somewhat like an oversized PS2. Inside are three basic parts:

  - The PS2 side of the system consists of one incredibly large board with
    a number of daughterboards attached to it. This corresponds roughly to
    the hardware of an early-model PS2. (It has a PCMCIA slot similar to
    the early Japanese PS2 models SCPH-1x000).

  - The PC/SBC side consists of a single-board computer (SBC) on a PCI card.
    It consists of a standard PC with a Pentium MMX 233 MHz and 64 MB
    of RAM. It runs Linux with some special software. (This repo provides
    a special kernel for this board.)

  - The BP3 board acts as the glue between the SBC and PS2 sides. It has a
    number of PCI slots plus a connector that looks like VME. The PS2 board
    connects to the VME-looking connector, and the SBC sits in one of the
    PCI slots, acting as the PCI bus master.

WHY A SPECIAL KERNEL?

  Sony shipped a Linux kernel for the PS2 TOOL SBC in binary form only.
  That kernel appears to be a modified version of kernel 2.0.36, modified
  to support poweroff commands from/to the BP3 board. This allows the power
  button on the outside of the unit to safely power down both the SBC and
  PS2 sides of the machine. This power control code is part of the kernel
  itself, and not a module. As far as your humble author is aware, no
  source for this modified kernel was ever provided.

THIS KERNEL

  This kernel represents a recreation of Sony's binary-only kernel in source
  form. The stock kernel 2.0.36 was used as a base. Power control code was
  then created based on reverse-engineering of the binary-only kernel.
